---
layout: single
title:  "20220721 데이터 분석을 위한 SQL2"
categories: data_it_girls
---

# Basic Select > Weather Observation Station 1
Query a list of CITY and STATE from the STATION table.


```python
SELECT CITY, STATE
FROM STATION
```

# Basic Select > Revising the Select Query I
Query all columns for all American cities in the CITY table with populations larger than 100000. The CountryCode for America is USA.


```python
SELECT *
FROM CITY
WHERE POPULATION > 100000 AND COUNTRYCODE = 'USA'
```

# Basic Select > Select By ID
Query all columns for a city in CITY with the ID 1661.


```python
SELECT *
FROM CITY
WHERE ID = 1661
```

# Basic Select > Weather Observation Station 6
Query the list of CITY names starting with vowels (i.e., a, e, i, o, or u) from STATION. Your result cannot contain duplicates.


```python
SELECT CITY
FROM STATION
WHERE CITY REGEXP '^[aeiou]'
```

# Basic Select > Weather Observation Station 12
Query the list of CITY names from STATION that do not start with vowels and do not end with vowels. Your result cannot contain duplicates.


```python
SELECT DISTINCT CITY
FROM STATION
WHERE CITY NOT REGEXP '^[aeiou]' AND CITY NOT REGEXP '[aeiou]$'
```

# Basic Select > Employee Names
Write a query that prints a list of employee names (i.e.: the name attribute) from the Employee table in alphabetical order.


```python
SELECT NAME
FROM EMPLOYEE
ORDER BY NAME
```

# Basic Select > Employee Salaries
Write a query that prints a list of employee names (i.e.: the name attribute) for employees in Employee having a salary greater than  per month who have been employees for less than  months. Sort your result by ascending employee_id.


```python
SELECT NAME
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE SALARY > 2000 AND MONTHS < 10
ORDER BY EMPLOYEE_ID
```

# Basic Select > Higher Than 75 Marks
Query the Name of any student in STUDENTS who scored higher than 75 Marks. Order your output by the last three characters of each name. If two or more students both have names ending in the same last three characters (i.e.: Bobby, Robby, etc.), secondary sort them by ascending ID.


```python
SELECT NAME
FROM STUDENTS
WHERE MARKS > 75
ORDER BY RIGHT(NAME, 3), ID
```

# Aggregation > Weather Observation Station 15
Query the Western Longitude (LONG_W) for the largest Northern Latitude (LAT_N) in STATION that is less than 137.2345. Round your answer to 4 decimal places.


```python
SELECT ROUND(LONG_W, 4)
FROM STATION
WHERE LAT_N < 137.2345
ORDER BY LAT_N DESC
LIMIT 1
```

저는 시프트 누르기 싫어서 '로 문자열을 입력하는데, 대부분의 개발자분들은 "를 더 많이 사용하시더라구요. 이유가 있을까요??
